ideas.md, before:

# Project Ideas

## An extended list of project ideas:
- [20 Exciting Software Development Project Ideas & Topics for Beginners](https://www.upgrad.com/blog/software-development-project-ideas-topics-for-beginners/)
- [40 Side Project Ideas for Software Engineers](https://www.codementor.io/npostolovski/40-side-project-ideas-for-software-engineers-g8xckyxef)
- [Make your own...](https://github.com/danistefanovic/build-your-own-x)
- [Practical Projects](https://github.com/karan/Projects)
- [1000+ Beginner Programming Projects](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/2a9ygh/1000_beginner_programming_projects_xpost/)
- [Awesome for Beginners](https://github.com/MunGell/awesome-for-beginners)
- [Project Based Learning](https://github.com/tuvtran/project-based-learning)
- [Rosetta Code](http://rosettacode.org/wiki/Category:Programming_Tasks)
- [Epic List Of Side Project Ideas For Programmers](https://livingliferichly.com/epic-list-of-side-project-ideas-for-programmers)
- [5 project ideas](https://medium.com/@JohanneA/5-project-ideas-for-programmers-who-dont-know-what-to-work-on-next-51fdb191cbde)

## Programming Challenges

### Easy
1. **Markov chain sentence generator**
2. **To-do list application (Web or cli)**
3. **Chatbot**
4. **Image to ASCII Art**
5. **Imageboard** (Imagine vichan)
6. **Create an HSV Color Representation**
7. **Old school demo effects** (Plasma, Tunnel, Scrollers, Zoomers, etc)
8. **Fizzbuzz**
9. **RPN Calculator**
10. **Count occurrences of characters in a given string**
11. **Towers of Hanoi**
12. **Calculator the first n digits of pi**
13. **Given an array of stock values over time, find the period of time where the stocks could have made the most money**
14. **Highest prime factor calculator**
15. **Password generator**
16. **Caesar cipher solver**
17. **ROT 13**
18. **Text encryption/decryption** (http://rumkin.com/tools/cipher/)
19. **Text to hex/binary converter**
20. **Sierpinski triangle**
21. **Basic neural network** - Simulate individual neurons and their connections
22. **Complimentary colour generator**
23. **Eulerian path**
24. **Draw spinning 3D cube**
25. **Cellular textures**
26. **Snake**
27. **Rock paper scissors**
28. **Design a game engine in Unity**
29. **Yahtzee**
30. **Oil Panic**
31. **Connect four**
32. **Simon**
33. **Ulam spiral**
34. **PDF tagger**
35. **ASCII digital clock**
69. **Calculate dot and cross product of two vectors**

### Medium
1. **Download manager**
2. **Elastic producer/consumer task queue**
3. **IRC client**
4. **English sentence parser that points to the context of a sentence**
5. **MIDI player & editor**
6. **Stock market simulator using yahoo spreadsheet data**
7. **Graphing calculator**
8. **TCP/UDP chat server & client**
9. **Shazam**
10. **Curses text editor**
11. **Paint clone**
12. **Image converter**
13. **ID3 Reader**
14. **C++ IDE plugin for sublime/atom/vscode**
15. **Simple version control** - supporting checkout, commit, unlocking, per-file configuration of number of revisions kept
16. **Password manager**
17. **IP/URL Obscurification**
18. **Radix base converter**
19. **Encrypted file share**
20. **Window manager**
21. **Pixel editor**
22. **Trivial file transfer protocol**
23. **Markdown editor**
24. **Music visualizer**
25. **Unicode converter**
26. **Least square fitting algorithm**
27. **Image steganography**
28. **Vignere cipher encryption/decryption**
29. **Game of life**
30. **Dijkstra's Algorthim**
31. **Program that displays MBR Contents**
32. **Random name generator**
33. **Calculate the first 1,000 digits of pi iteratively**
34. **Mandlebrot set**
35. **AI for roguelikes**
36. **Sudoku/n-puzzle solver using A\* algorithm**
37. **Connect 4 AI**
38. **Real neural network** - Implement a basic feed-forward neural network using matrices for entire layers along with matrix operations for computations
40. **Virtual machine with a script that writes "Hello, world"**
41. **Terminal shell** (Executable binaries, pipe system, redirection, history
42. **HTML & Javascript debugger**
43. **Interpreted LISP-like programming language**
44. **Universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter game**
45. **Static website generator** (Scriptable template, content)
46. **Chip 8 emulator**
47. **Double pendulum simulation**
48. **Constructive solid geometry**
49. **Generate a 5-colour scheme from the most dominant tones in an image**
50. **N-body simulator** - with particles having a certain mass and radius depdning on the mass that merge if they collide
51. **Knight's tour**
52. **Tetris**
53. **Pipe dreams**
54. **Pac man**
55. **Shuffling a deck of cards** (with visualisation)
56. **Simulate a game of tag using a multi-agent system**
57. **Scorched earch clone**
58. **Minesweeper**
59. **An audio/visual 64KB demonstration**
60. **Sudoku**
61. **Chess**
62. **Mastermind**
63. **Missle command game**
64. **Tron**
65. **Breakout**
66. **Bellman-Ford simulation with at least five vertices**
67. **Matrix arithmetic**
68. **File compression Utility** (GUI)
70. **Bismuth fractal**
71. **Seam carving**
72. **Bayesian Filter**
73. **Rubik's cube solver**

### Difficult
1. **Parametric/Graphic equalizer for .wav files**
2. **Verlet integration**
3. **Sound Synthesis**
4. **Torrent client** (CLI or GUI)
5. **Text editor**
6. **OpenAI Gym project**
7. **Convolutional neural network** - Implement a convolutional NN for a handwritten digit recognition test on MNIST dataset
8. **Mount filesystems from other OSes using FUSE model**
9. **Pong game as a UEFI file in colour**
10. **Esoteric Language**
11. **C Compiler**
12. **Turing machine simulator**
13. **Read, evaluate, print loop using a compiled language**
14. **Ray tracer**
15. **Real-time fast fourier transform spectrum visualiser**
16. **TI-86 emulator**
17. **Monster raising/breeding simulator**
18. **Dragon quest / basic RPG engine**
19. **First person engine in OpenGL**
20. **Wolfenstein clone**
21. **Danmaku engine**
22. **Roguelike engine/dungeon generator**
23. **Go**
24. **LISP Interpreter**
25. **Nonogram generator and solver**
26. **WMS viewer that isn't web based**

### Very difficult 
1. **Relational database system** (SQL support, relationships, efficient)
2. **Bootloader**
3. **General Lambert's problem solver**
4. **Convolutional Neural Network** - Implement your own convolutional neural network for handwritten digit recognition, test on MNIST dataset

Commit message:

Add game dev ideas
Includes [49 Ideas for Game Clones to Code](https://inventwithpython.com/blog/2012/02/20/i-need-practice-programming-49-ideas-for-game-clones-to-code/) and [Game Clone Challenges](https://github.com/rby90/game-clone-challenges)

ideas.md, after:

# Project Ideas

## An extended list of project ideas:
- [20 Exciting Software Development Project Ideas & Topics for Beginners](https://www.upgrad.com/blog/software-development-project-ideas-topics-for-beginners/)
- [40 Side Project Ideas for Software Engineers](https://www.codementor.io/npostolovski/40-side-project-ideas-for-software-engineers-g8xckyxef)
- [Make your own...](https://github.com/danistefanovic/build-your-own-x)
- [Practical Projects](https://github.com/karan/Projects)
- [1000+ Beginner Programming Projects](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/2a9ygh/1000_beginner_programming_projects_xpost/)
- [Awesome for Beginners](https://github.com/MunGell/awesome-for-beginners)
- [Project Based Learning](https://github.com/tuvtran/project-based-learning)
- [Rosetta Code](http://rosettacode.org/wiki/Category:Programming_Tasks)
- [Epic List Of Side Project Ideas For Programmers](https://livingliferichly.com/epic-list-of-side-project-ideas-for-programmers)
- [5 project ideas](https://medium.com/@JohanneA/5-project-ideas-for-programmers-who-dont-know-what-to-work-on-next-51fdb191cbde)
- [49 Ideas for Game Clones to Code](https://inventwithpython.com/blog/2012/02/20/i-need-practice-programming-49-ideas-for-game-clones-to-code/)
- [Game Clone Challenges](https://github.com/rby90/game-clone-challenges)

## Programming Challenges

### Easy
1. **Markov chain sentence generator**
2. **To-do list application (Web or cli)**
3. **Chatbot**
4. **Image to ASCII Art**
5. **Imageboard** (Imagine vichan)
6. **Create an HSV Color Representation**
7. **Old school demo effects** (Plasma, Tunnel, Scrollers, Zoomers, etc)
8. **Fizzbuzz**
9. **RPN Calculator**
10. **Count occurrences of characters in a given string**
11. **Towers of Hanoi**
12. **Calculator the first n digits of pi**
13. **Given an array of stock values over time, find the period of time where the stocks could have made the most money**
14. **Highest prime factor calculator**
15. **Password generator**
16. **Caesar cipher solver**
17. **ROT 13**
18. **Text encryption/decryption** (http://rumkin.com/tools/cipher/)
19. **Text to hex/binary converter**
20. **Sierpinski triangle**
21. **Basic neural network** - Simulate individual neurons and their connections
22. **Complimentary colour generator**
23. **Eulerian path**
24. **Draw spinning 3D cube**
25. **Cellular textures**
26. **Snake**
27. **Rock paper scissors**
28. **Design a game engine in Unity**
29. **Yahtzee**
30. **Oil Panic**
31. **Connect four**
32. **Simon**
33. **Ulam spiral**
34. **PDF tagger**
35. **ASCII digital clock**
69. **Calculate dot and cross product of two vectors**

### Medium
1. **Download manager**
2. **Elastic producer/consumer task queue**
3. **IRC client**
4. **English sentence parser that points to the context of a sentence**
5. **MIDI player & editor**
6. **Stock market simulator using yahoo spreadsheet data**
7. **Graphing calculator**
8. **TCP/UDP chat server & client**
9. **Shazam**
10. **Curses text editor**
11. **Paint clone**
12. **Image converter**
13. **ID3 Reader**
14. **C++ IDE plugin for sublime/atom/vscode**
15. **Simple version control** - supporting checkout, commit, unlocking, per-file configuration of number of revisions kept
16. **Password manager**
17. **IP/URL Obscurification**
18. **Radix base converter**
19. **Encrypted file share**
20. **Window manager**
21. **Pixel editor**
22. **Trivial file transfer protocol**
23. **Markdown editor**
24. **Music visualizer**
25. **Unicode converter**
26. **Least square fitting algorithm**
27. **Image steganography**
28. **Vignere cipher encryption/decryption**
29. **Game of life**
30. **Dijkstra's Algorthim**
31. **Program that displays MBR Contents**
32. **Random name generator**
33. **Calculate the first 1,000 digits of pi iteratively**
34. **Mandlebrot set**
35. **AI for roguelikes**
36. **Sudoku/n-puzzle solver using A\* algorithm**
37. **Connect 4 AI**
38. **Real neural network** - Implement a basic feed-forward neural network using matrices for entire layers along with matrix operations for computations
40. **Virtual machine with a script that writes "Hello, world"**
41. **Terminal shell** (Executable binaries, pipe system, redirection, history
42. **HTML & Javascript debugger**
43. **Interpreted LISP-like programming language**
44. **Universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter game**
45. **Static website generator** (Scriptable template, content)
46. **Chip 8 emulator**
47. **Double pendulum simulation**
48. **Constructive solid geometry**
49. **Generate a 5-colour scheme from the most dominant tones in an image**
50. **N-body simulator** - with particles having a certain mass and radius depdning on the mass that merge if they collide
51. **Knight's tour**
52. **Tetris**
53. **Pipe dreams**
54. **Pac man**
55. **Shuffling a deck of cards** (with visualisation)
56. **Simulate a game of tag using a multi-agent system**
57. **Scorched earch clone**
58. **Minesweeper**
59. **An audio/visual 64KB demonstration**
60. **Sudoku**
61. **Chess**
62. **Mastermind**
63. **Missle command game**
64. **Tron**
65. **Breakout**
66. **Bellman-Ford simulation with at least five vertices**
67. **Matrix arithmetic**
68. **File compression Utility** (GUI)
70. **Bismuth fractal**
71. **Seam carving**
72. **Bayesian Filter**
73. **Rubik's cube solver**

### Difficult
1. **Parametric/Graphic equalizer for .wav files**
2. **Verlet integration**
3. **Sound Synthesis**
4. **Torrent client** (CLI or GUI)
5. **Text editor**
6. **OpenAI Gym project**
7. **Convolutional neural network** - Implement a convolutional NN for a handwritten digit recognition test on MNIST dataset
8. **Mount filesystems from other OSes using FUSE model**
9. **Pong game as a UEFI file in colour**
10. **Esoteric Language**
11. **C Compiler**
12. **Turing machine simulator**
13. **Read, evaluate, print loop using a compiled language**
14. **Ray tracer**
15. **Real-time fast fourier transform spectrum visualiser**
16. **TI-86 emulator**
17. **Monster raising/breeding simulator**
18. **Dragon quest / basic RPG engine**
19. **First person engine in OpenGL**
20. **Wolfenstein clone**
21. **Danmaku engine**
22. **Roguelike engine/dungeon generator**
23. **Go**
24. **LISP Interpreter**
25. **Nonogram generator and solver**
26. **WMS viewer that isn't web based**

### Very difficult 
1. **Relational database system** (SQL support, relationships, efficient)
2. **Bootloader**
3. **General Lambert's problem solver**
4. **Convolutional Neural Network** - Implement your own convolutional neural network for handwritten digit recognition, test on MNIST dataset
